1) What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" - String
42 - Integer/Number
09/02/1945 - Integer/Date
98.7 - Float
$15.99 - Float/Currency

2) Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

Databases are used to store large amounts of data that can be quickly read and modified. Databases are stored in binary format which can only be read by the computer.

Text files should be used to store data that can be read by any developer/human.

3) Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

Unlike other other languages, SQL is declarative and not procedural.

This allows us to concern ourselves with what we want to find out, rather than how the database should find it. We don't have to define an algorithm for how the database should search; instead, we tell the database what we are looking for and the database engine determines the most efficient way to return that data.

4) In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

5) Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

Table: Structure that holds a collection of related data
Row:  Horizontal collection of a conceptual unit
Column: Vertical definition what the data represents
Value: Data contained in a cell

6) List three data types that can be used in a table.

 String
 Float
 Integer

 7)

 SELECT date, amount
 FROM payments;

 Query - look up the date/amount from the payments table.

 SELECT amount
 FROM payments
 WHERE amount > 500;

 Query - look up the amount from the payment table, where the
 amount is greater or higher than 500.

 SELECT *
 FROM payments
 WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

 Query - look up all info/data from the payments table,
 that are related to the payee called 'Mega Foods'

 8)

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

SELECT email, date
FROM users
WHERE user = 'DeAndre Data';

SELECT user ID, email
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

SELECT columns
FROM users
WHERE user ID = 4;
